docs/index.rst, before:

Introduction to nullable
==============================================================================

Replacement basic nim types that can, in addition to their normal values,
take on the values of ``null`` or ``Error``.

Introduction
------------

Nim has five basic types:

- ``bool``
- ``char``
- ``string``
- ``int`` (aka int32)
- ``float`` (aka float64)

Examples of their use:

.. code:: nim

    var x: int = 5
    var my_flag: bool = true
    var firstName: string

This library introduces replacement types that are prefixed with the letter "n":

- ``nbool``
- ``nchar``
- ``nstring``
- ``nint``
- ``nfloat``

The primary difference when use these, it that in addition to the traditional
values they type can have, you can also set it them ``null`` or ``Error``.

.. code:: nim

    import nullable

    var x: nint = 5
    var my_flag: nbool = true
    var firstName: nstring

    x = null                            # storing "nothing" instead
    x = Error("something went wrong")   # storing an error instead
    x = -3                              # store an actual integer

    my_flag = null
    firstName = Error("name not found")

 The types largely behave like their counterparts:

.. code:: nim

    var z = x        # z is now a nint valued at -3
    z = x * 2        # z is now a nint valued at -6
    echo "z = ", z   # the message 'z = -6' displays on the screen


Downsides
---------

There are a few downsides to using this library. Most notably:

- Performance cost: these nullable types are, underneath, full objects. As
  such, they use more memory and are somewhat slower.
- Compatibility. Unless a library is written to use ``nullable`` you *might*
  need to convert nullable types to the correct types when passing as
  parameters. The library has built-in converters, but certain circumstances
  might prevent automatic conversion. Failure should be obvious when
  compiling.

Future Versions
---------------

There are two planned expansions after version 1.0.0 is released:

- Allow "log" information to be attached to a variable. It will be strictly
  optional. With conditional compiling, no code should be added if not used.
- Adding the following types:
  - ``nint64`` (aka "long")
  - ``ndate`` and ``ntimestamp``
  - ``nOid``
  - ``nDecimal``




Table Of Contents
=================

1. `Introduction to nullable <index.rst>`__
2. Appendices

    A. `nullable Reference <nullable-ref.rst>`__
    B. `nullable/nint General Documentation <nullable-nint-gen.rst>`__
    C. `nullable/nint Reference <nullable-nint-ref.rst>`__
    D. `nullable/core General Documentation <nullable-core-gen.rst>`__
    E. `nullable/core Reference <nullable-core-ref.rst>`__

Commit message:

added more nint op support and hint array

docs/index.rst, after:

Introduction to nullable
==============================================================================

Replacement basic nim types that can, in addition to their normal values,
take on the values of ``null`` or ``Error``.

Introduction
------------

Nim has five basic types:

- ``bool``

- ``char``

- ``string``

- ``int`` (aka int32)

- ``float`` (aka float64)

Examples of their use:

.. code:: nim

    var x: int = 5
    var my_flag: bool = true
    var firstName: string

This library introduces replacements. The names are prefixed with the letter "n":

- ``nbool``

- ``nchar``

- ``nstring``

- ``nint``

- ``nfloat``

The primary difference when use these, it that in addition to the traditional
values they type can have, you can also set it them ``null`` or ``Error``.

.. code:: nim

    import nullable

    var x: nint = 5
    var my_flag: nbool = true
    var firstName: nstring

    x = null                            # storing "nothing"/null
    x = Error("something went wrong")   # storing an error
    x = -3                              # store an actual integer

    my_flag = null
    firstName = Error("name not found")

The types largely behave like their counterparts:

.. code:: nim

    var z = x        # z is now a nint valued at -3
    z = x * 2        # z is now a nint valued at -6
    echo "z = ", z   # the message 'z = -6' displays on the screen


Downsides
---------

There are a few downsides to using this library. Most notably:

- **Performance cost**: these nullable types are, underneath, full objects. As
  such, they use more memory and are somewhat slower.

- **Compatibility**. Unless a library is written to use ``nullable`` you *might*
  need to convert nullable types to the correct types when passing as
  parameters. The library has built-in converters, but certain circumstances
  might prevent automatic conversion. A failure message *should* be generated when
  compiling.

Future Versions
---------------

There are two planned expansions after version 1.0.0 is released:

- Allow "hint" information to be attached to a variable. This will be strictly
  optional. With conditional compiling, no code should be added if not used.

- Adding the following types:

  - nint64 (aka "long")

  - ndate and ntimestamp

  - nOid

  - nDecimal




Table Of Contents
=================

1. `Introduction to nullable <index.rst>`__
2. Appendices

    A. `nullable Reference <nullable-ref.rst>`__
    B. `nullable/nint General Documentation <nullable-nint-gen.rst>`__
    C. `nullable/nint Reference <nullable-nint-ref.rst>`__
    D. `nullable/core General Documentation <nullable-core-gen.rst>`__
    E. `nullable/core Reference <nullable-core-ref.rst>`__
